In the final section of this lesson,
we'll look at the CIS cybersecurity best practices.
From their website, cisecurity.org/aboutus,
the Center for Internet Security is
a non-profit organization that leads a global community of
IT professionals in developing security standards to safeguard against emerging threats.
Their are best practices are made up of two parts.
The Critical Security Controls,
also known as the CIS,
CSC or just the CIS controls,
are the top 20 activities for organizational security.
These are used for small, medium,
and large businesses as they're developing and maintaining a security program.
The CIS benchmarks are guidelined to secure or lock down operating system,
software, applications, and networks.
Both are developed by a community of
cybersecurity professionals from many different areas with the goal of
establishing a checklist of activities as
organizations mature their cybersecurity programs.
The CIS controls are made up of 20 actions
for establishing an organizational security program.
They are an order of priority and work with any security program including,
defense in depth, to reduce risks of security breaches and attacks.
They are separated into three functional areas that the CIS calls implementation groups.
The first are basic controls.
These are controls that should be done by every organization.
Building on that are foundational controls,
which add additional layers of security for an operation.
Then lastly are the organizational controls,
that show an organization is more mature with their security best practices.
Each of these identifies a subset of the controls that
build upon each other as a cyber security program grows.
The CIS basic controls form a foundation for security programs.
These should be done first as you're building a security program,
includes an inventory and control of hardware assets,
inventory of software asset,
continuous vulnerability management, controlled use of admin privileges.
Basically, who has root or God-like powers on information systems,
secure configurations for hardware,
software, any type of devices and lastly, maintaining,
monitoring and analyzing your logs so you can identify when a problem occurs.
The foundational controls are the next implementation group that
provide more advanced protection measures based on common types of threats and attacks,
such as e-mail and web browser protections,
malware defenses like antivirus or endpoint protection,
controlling your network ports,
protocol services with your boundary across your internal and external networks.
That includes that secure configuration for
your network devices like firewalls, routers and switches,
protecting the data within your infrastructure,
knowing where it is and putting layers around it to protect it as appropriate.
Controlling the access based on need to know,
for remember from earlier,
this is the least privileged idea.
Wireless access control, because wireless has increased risk over wired,
and we just want to make sure that protections are in place.
Then last part of the foundational controls is,
account monitoring, knowing who has access to what and what they're doing.
The last group of controls are for establishing an organization-wide security program.
The first is implementing security training for all users and employees,
this way they know best practices as they're doing their daily work.
Second, application security that breaks into
the development life cycle as your coders are creating new applications,
are they building security in?
Incident response and management means planning and preparing for
an inevitable incident and making sure
you can appropriately respond to any type of incident.
The fun part, the penetration test and red teams.
This is where you hire a hacker to try to break into
your systems to see where you're vulnerable and then how to fix those.
All of these control levels should be implemented to mature a security program.
We'll go into more details about the controls in
subsequent videos where you'll see them in action.
You should see an overlap between the CIS controls and the NEST CSF,
they are meant to complement each other.
I will often use both of them working together when
advising companies as they are building a security program.
Now that you're familiar with the CIS controls,
you'll use them in a case study exercise.